Welcome, in this video, we're going to rename and then delete
files directly on our GitHub repository.
I'm currently logged in and in the "website" GitHub repository.
I'm on the master branch, and we just created a file under the "css" folder
called "demo.txt". Let's go to it now.
We currently have a single line of text, so let's click on "Edit this file".
When we do that, we have our standard editor that we have available to us,
and we have the ability to change the name of this file within this folder.
Let's change this to a Markdown file; so I changed it from "demo.txt" to "demo.md".
And, while I'm doing it, I will edit the contents of the file to make this a Markdown file format.
Let's preview the changes; GitHub already detects that this is a Markdown file,
so it's able to render this in the preview. Let's scroll down and commit our changes
Like before, I'm just going to commit directly to master. Click on the green "Commit changes".
Great; now we have saved our change, making this "demo.md" file.
We can see "demo.md" is listed in the directory listing for "css";
however, I realize that "demo.md" really doesn't belong in a "css" folder.
So, let's take care of that; let's click on the file, and detecting this is a Markdown file
GitHub will display this in Markdown when we're viewing it.
I might want to just move this file into a new folder; if I go into edit this file,
all I have the ability to do is to rename the file in its current folder.
So, what I need to do is actually delete this file entirely.
So, go over to the trash can icon, which if you hover over it
it will say "Delete this file". Click on the trash can.
Right now, the deletion is staged, and you can see this by a
diff where it's saying we're deleting the content of this file.
To finalize this, let's enter in our commit message: "Deleting demo file".
This commit is going to go directly on master, and let's commit the changes.
When we do that, we refresh into the folder we were in,
and GitHub will display a banner telling us that the file has been successfully deleted.
I'm going to go ahead and dismiss this banner.